==========
Change Log
==========

..  v0.X.X (in development)
    =======================
    **Requirements**
    **Incompatible changes**
    **Deprecated**
    **Compatible changes and features**

v0.8.0 (in development)
=======================
**License**

- Cloup license changed from MIT to 3-clause BSD, the one used by Click.

**Incompatible changes**

* ``OptionGroupMixin`` and ``SectionMixin`` now assume that a
  ``cloup.HelpFormatter`` will be created by the context and passed in.
  If you used a custom ``click.HelpFormatter``, you'll need to change your code
  to use this release.

* ``OptionGroupMixin.format_option_group`` was removed.

* ``SectionMixin.format_section`` was removed.

** Compatible changes

- Cloup now uses its own ``HelpFormatter``:

  * it supports alignment of multiple definition lists, so Cloup doesn't have to
    rely on a hack to align option groups and alike

  * it adds several attributes to fine-tune your generated help string:
    ``col1_max_width``, ``col_spacing`` and ``row_sep``

  * it overrides ``HelpFormatter.write_dl``, hopefully improving code quality and
    behaviour.

- Added a custom ``Context`` that:

  * uses ``cloup.HelpFormatter`` as formatter class by default
  * adds a ``formatter_settings`` attributes that allows to set the default formatter
    keyword arguments (the same argument can be given to a command to override
    these defaults).
  * allows to set the default value for the following Command parameters:

    * ``align_option_groups = True``,
    * ``align_sections = True``.

- Changed the class hierarchy:

  * added a ``BaseCommand`` class, extending ``click.Command`` and using the custom
    ``Context`` by default. This class also "back-ports" the Click 8.0 class
    attribute ``context_class`` and adds the ``formatter_settings`` argument.

  * ``cloup.Command`` and ``cloup.MultiCommand`` extends ``cloup.BaseCommand``

  * ``cloup.Group`` now extends ``cloup.MultiCommand``.

- Hidden option groups. An option group is hidden either if you pass ``hidden=True``
  when you define it or if all its contained options are hidden.
  If you set ``hidden=True``, all contained options will have their ``hidden``
  attribute set to ``True`` automatically.


v0.7.0 (2021-03-24)
===================
**Compatible changes and features**

- In constraint errors, the way the parameter list is formatted has changed.
  Instead of printing a comma-separated list of single labels:

  * each parameter is printed on a 2-space indented line and
  * both the short and long name of options are printed.

  See the relevant `commit <https://github.com/janLuke/cloup/commit/0280323e481bcca2b941a49c9133b06685e4bbe1>`_.

- Minor improvements to code and docs.


v0.6.1 (2021-03-01)
===================
This patch release fixes some problems in the management and releasing of
the package.

- Add a ``py.typed`` file to ship the package with type hints (PEP 561).
- Use ``setuptools-scm`` to automatically manage the version of the package
  *and* the content of the source distribution based on the git repository:

  * the source distribution now matches the git repository, with the only
    exception of ``_version.py``, which is not tracked by git; it's generated by
    ``setuptools-scm`` and included in the package;

  * tox.ini and Makefile were updated to account for the fact that ``_version.py``
    doesn't exist in the repository before installing the package.

- The new attribute ``cloup.__version_tuple__`` stores the version as a tuple
  (of *at least* 3 elements).


v0.6.0 (2021-02-28)
===================
**Incompatible changes**

- Removed the deprecated ``GroupSection`` as previously announced.
  Use the new name instead: ``Section``.
- In ``Group.group()`` and ``Group.command``, the argument ``section`` was moved
  after the ``cls`` argument so that the signatures are now fully compatible with
  those of the parent class (the Liskov substitution principle is now satisfied).
  If you (wisely) passed ``section`` and ``cls`` as keyword arguments in your
  code, you don't need to change anything.

**Compatible changes**

- Slightly improved return type (hint) of command decorators.
- Minor refactoring of ConstraintMixin.
- Improved the documentation.


v0.5.0 (2021-02-10)
===================
**Requirements**

- Drop support to Python 3.5.

**Deprecated**

- ``GroupSection`` was renamed as ``Section``.

**Compatible changes and features**

- Added a subpackage for defining **constraints** on parameters groups
  (including ``OptionGroup``'s).
- The code for adding support to option groups was extracted to ``OptionGroupMixin``.
- Most of the code for adding support to subcommand sections was extracted to
  ``SectionMixin``.

**Project changes**

- Migrated from TravisCI to GitHub Actions.


v0.4.0 (2021-01-10)
===================

**Requirements**

- This is the last release officially supporting Python 3.5.

**Compatible changes and features**

- Changed the internal (non-public) structure of the package.
- Minor code improvements.

**Repository-wise:**

- New documentation (hosted by ReadTheDocs)
- Tox, TravisCI, Makefile completely rewritten.


v0.3.0 (2020-03-26)
===================
Backward incompatible API changes
---------------------------------
- ``option_groups`` decorator now takes options as positional arguments ``*options``;
- ``Group.section`` decorator now takes sections as positional arguments ``*sections``;
- ``align_sections_help`` was renamed to ``align_sections``;
- ``GroupSection.__init__() sorted_`` argument was renamed to ``sorted``.

Other changes
-------------
- Additional signature for ``option_group``: you can pass the ``help`` argument
  as 2nd positional argument.
- Aligned option groups (option ``align_option_groups`` with default ``True``).
- More refactoring and testing.


v0.2.0 (2020-03-11)
===================
- [Feature] Add possibility of organizing subcommands of a cloup.Group in
  multiple help sections.
- Various code improvements.
- Backward incompatible change:
    - rename ``CloupCommand`` and ``CloupGroup`` resp. to just ``Command`` and ``Group``.


v0.1.0 (2020-02-25)
===================
- First release on PyPI.
